An Unexpected Farewell After 21 Years
Leo Andres Messi Cuccittini had entered from the doors of the reputed academy of Barcelona, La Masia, just at the age of 13. Coming to la Masia meant a completely different world for little Leo: a new club, a new city, a new country and a completely new culture far away from his family and his homeland Rosario in Argentina. Who could have possibly guessed the magical talent of this small Argentinian boy who would one day become one of the best football players of all time?


After entering the doors of Barca in 2000, Leo Messi had to leave the club that he has called his home after just over two decades. After 21 years, countless goal contributions, ten La Liga titles, six Ballon D'ors, ten player of the season awards and four Champions League titles, the chapter of Barcelona has ended for Leo Messi. So, why did Messi have to leave Barcelona? What kind of a future is awaiting him in his new team Paris Saint-Germain?


The Barca attacker had already agreed with Barcelona over a new contract this year with a 50% reduction in his salary. However, the problem has not been about the agreement itself, but rather La Liga. Rules introduced by La Liga in 2013 state that player salaries and acquisition costs must require a maximum of 70% of the club’s total revenue. When considering the new signings of big names that Barcelona have made this year, such as Sergio Aguero, Eric Garcia, and Memphis Depay as well as the already existing players with high wages such as Umtiti, the Barca board had  already been struggling to comply with these La Liga rules. Even though Messi had already agreed to go for a 50% cut, the club still could not afford it, meaning that the Barcelona board would not be able to keep Messi in the team. Despite Messi’s big sacrifice, due to the lack of planning of the Barcelona board, the club could not comply with the La Liga rules, and this meant that the Catalan team had to let go of its most successful player.


After his farewell, the Barcelona captain has been associated with multiple teams such as the French team Paris Saint-Germain, English team Manchester City, a number of Major League Soccer (MLS) teams like New York City F.C. and various teams from Qatar. The semi finalist of the 2020-2021 Champions League and the finalist of the 2019-2020 Champions League, Paris SG, were rumored to be the team that Messi would move to. The most anticipated decision was made, and Leo Messi agreed over a two-year contract with Paris with a 41 million dollar annual net salary, including bonuses. This would mean that the 34-year old attacker would reunite with his old teammate Neymar on a new mission. Although the number 10 jersey had been proposed to Messi, the Argentinian kindly rejected the offer and agreed to wear number 30, his first shirt number for Barcelona. 


Paris will be the first team Messi has ever played for other than Barcelona on a professional level. After 21 years of countless achievements, blood, sweat and tears, an era has ended unexpectedly, and a completely new challenge is ahead of Leo. Only time will show us what kind of a future awaits the football world and Leo, with what the experienced player could still possibly offer to football with his magical talent.


--Elif Eren

Work Cited
----------
"Lionel Messi All-Time Trophy Wins | Statista". Statista, 2021, https://www.statista.com/statistics/1008359/lionel-messi-trophy-titles/.
"Explained: Why Is Lionel Messi Leaving Barcelona?". The Indian Express, 2021, https://indianexpress.com/article/explained/explained-why-lionel-messi-is-leaving-barcelona-7445005/.
"Why Did Lionel Messi Leave Barcelona? Explaining What Happened Between Messi And La Liga Club". Sportingnews.Com, 2021, https://www.sportingnews.com/us/soccer/news/why-did-lionel-messi-leave-barcelona-explain-what-happened/1dwtnwr31kcox1qki0fueupe64.
2021, https://www.goal.com/en-in/news/lionel-messis-next-club-where-will-barcelona-legend-transfer/kozqpxg01lm41cp66ckoyj6bv. Accessed 22 Aug 2021.
"Lionel Messi Contract Details: How Much Money Is He Making With New PSG Contract?". Sportingnews.Com, 2021, https://www.sportingnews.com/us/soccer/news/lionel-messi-psg-money-salary-details-contract-paris/141m0hzlihl0a14zxsb2lfvvmc.
image. 2021, http://E8dDAKqXsAAKNLk.jpg. Accessed 22 Aug 2021.
image. 2021, http://610fb50f2a24d000186249d1. Accessed 22 Aug 2021.
