Culture and Food 
Recently, me and my family went on a tour on the East side of Turkey.. We have travelled ten cities and each city felt like another country because every single one of them had a unique culture which excited me to a great extent. I was especially curious and enthusiastic about the food because traditional dishes generally have a story behind. That is related to how people live, the way climate affects them, their wealth and their customs. So, I would like to share my journey and what I have learned about the culture through the foods. 


Let's start with one of the local dishes of Malatya: the apricot city. In Turkey when people say Malatya the only thing that comes to mind is apricots. Yet it surprised me to realize that the food culture there was much richer then I had expected.Malatya has a special and experimental cuisine. The reason is that, at the time of the Ottoman Empire, people living in Malatya were not particularly wealthy and the climate was not suitable for herbarizing various plants.So, they had to come up with new ideas to create unusual meals without spending much money on them.


As a result, they found seventy-two different versions of meatballs. The most fascinating thing about the meatballs is that most of them do not contain meat and are based on bulgur wheat. Because of Malatya’s dry and hot climate, meat is not very durable but making bulgur stick together is at least as hard and needs a lot of time to impaste them in a special mortar. To make these meatballs people generally come together and work to make food that lasts long and gives strength. 


Another experimental meal is “Kiraz Yaprağı Sarması” (Cherry Leaf Wrap). This food was originally eaten by the Ottoman nobles but as time passed, the food started to be made by the public as well. Hence, it is a bond between bourgeoisie and the biedermeier. Wrapping made with cherry leaves has a sour taste which makes it uniquely delicious. Unlike other wraps, cherry leaf wrap, which also includes plum syrup, is one of the local flavors of Malaty and stands out with its different taste. The nutritious wrap, which is rich in bulgur, is served with yoghurt and onion sauce. Also, this meal helps with digestion and stomach ailments. Thus, it requires collective working too since the process of collecting and drying the cherry trees is laborious. Also in the making process of the meal who rolls the leaves tells traditional stories to the ones which are helping them.


Next stop is Kahramanmaraş, the city of ice cream. Kahramaraş had many interesting foods that I have never heard of before. When I talked to a local man they said that “Maraş remained in the shadow of Antep because it is very close to Antep and cannot market itself well.”Then, he added “The thing that makes Maraş’s foods different from any other eastern city of Turkey is that spice is not the foreground taste. The important thing in Maraş dishes is to preserve the essential essence of the material at hand and present it in harmony with other ingredients.” .


The first food that I adored was the “Eli Böğrüne” also known as “Yanyana” which has a very cute background story. “Eli Böğründe” is a dish that was created when a few tradesmen united and gave food to bakeries in ​​the  bazaar, where the heart of Kahramanmaraş trade beat in ancient times. In those years, when there were few trays and pans, the food was cooked in tins obtained by bending oil cans. The shopkeepers would put the food they had prepared in common, called Halfene style, into the oven and they would eat it together.


It is an easy dish. The ingredients are a medium-sized chopped lamb, tail fat, tomatoes, peppers and garlic.Yet, choosing the soft lamb meat in the butcher needs special care. Besides, the most important feature of the dish is that these ingredients are prepared without mixing them. Also, thanks to this meal even the people who are hostile come together as one and forget their biases.


Overall, in my trip I learned that every traditional meal comes with other perks such as learning how to be united, how to survive with given choices, being creative and respectful. The meals that I talked about were great examples of these since they were generally born from trying to overcome a hard situation with being one and indigenous.

--Esma Çağlayan

Work Cited
----------
Kibar, Fatih, et al. “Malatya'da Ne Yenir? – İşte Size Malatya Mutfağının EN Lezzetli 18 Yemeği.” Biletbayi Blog, 21 Dec. 2020, blog.biletbayi.com/malatyanin-yoresel-yemekleri.html/. 
“Maraş Eli Böğründe Yapımı.” Lezzet Avcıları, 23 May 2020, lezzetavcilari.com/portfolio/maras-eli-bogrunde-yapimi/.
