Emmys
What is Emmys?


The Academy of Televisions Arts and Sciences was established in 1946. The aim of the Academy was to help industry professionals develop the art and science of television. So, the Academy started to award TV shows and technical crew in 1949 and named the awards Emmy. Then the awarding ceremony became an annual show taking place each year where people from the industry get awarded from one hundred nineteen categories. The Emmy winners are decided by twenty four thousand industry members who pay to be part of the Academy. Emmys are quite prestigious and it is the equivalent of the Grammy of music and Oscar of the film industry. 


Voting procedure of Emmys

Since a huge group of twenty four thousand people attend the show, The Academy's way of organization is dividing the attendees into thirty teams according to their specialities. Also, each group can only vote for a specific category in which they have mastered.For example actors vote on performances and designers vote on designers. Voting process is a long continuum. First, Candidates who meet the criteria set of Emmys, apply for an award with a fee. The 2021 fee of the application was four hundred dollars per submission. After the submission process ends, each judge receives the specific entry that they need to evaluate from a secure online platform. In addition, the Academy can see who watches which submission and how much they watch. Thus, each entry requires a minimum amount of views in order to get voted on. Further, judges can give the same point to the different entries. The judges give votes and most voted six-eight entries get nominated for an Emmy. Afterwards, the Academy makes an official announcement of the nominees via their website with two hosts. Then, the entries go through one last evaluation by judges and get re-voted. Lastly, the most voted entry wins the Emmy. It gets announced on the Primetime Emmy Awards which is aired on Columbia Broadcasting System. The award show traditionally takes place in September. Recently, this year the Academy got above eight-hundred entry submissioıns from one hundred nineteen categories. 


Ps: You can find more information about the voting presecure from here.


Seventy Third Emmy Awards

The 73rd Primetime Emmy Awards will be held at Staples Center on  September 19th 2021. The award show will be hosted by Cedric Antonio Kyles, who is also known as Cedric the Entertainer. The show will be face to face unlike last year. Hence, this year the Academy took very serious precautions for Covid-19. They expect every guest to be fully vaccinated and test negative to Covid PCR test in order to partake in the event. Masks will be mandatory during the event as well. 


What is the importance of an Emmy?

In recent years, digital streaming platforms have gained popularity, but they stopped getting new subscribers to their platform. So, awards such as the Emmys and Oscars became another way of advertising and promoting their platform. They even started to make TV shows just for Emmys. Also, if we look at the nominee list of this year, it is very clear that digital platforms have dominated the nominations. In addition shows that their strategy on advertising works. Furthermore, an individual winning an Emmy means getting a better payment at their job because if a film has an Emmy winner on their cast, it is a way of advertising. Most importantly, the employee proves their talent to the whole world this way. 


List of nominees

This year is very competitive and a great year for Emmy nominees. This is because unlike some other years, this year nominations were wisely and equitably chosen. So, the rivalry is huge. 
Lastly, I can say that it is even possible to guess who will win in some categories. So take a look at the nominees from here and make your guess. 


Work Cited
----------
Fienberg, Daniel. “Critic's Notebook: 2021 Emmy NOMINATIONS Offer Pleasant Surprises (and 'EMILY in Paris' Nominations).” The Hollywood Reporter, The Hollywood Reporter, 13 July 2021, www.hollywoodreporter.com/tv/tv-reviews/emmys-2021-nominations-critic-analysis-1234981319/. 
“Https://Theemmys.tv/Wp-Content/Uploads/2020/12/NATAS-Emmy-Rules-v2021.0.0.Pdf.” 
“Https://Www.emmys.com/Sites/Default/Files/Downloads/73rd-Nominations-List-v2a.Pdf?q2a=&amp;q1=.” Emmys. 
Nicolaou, Elena. “Real Talk: Who Votes for the Emmys?” Who Votes For The Emmys? How Winners Are Picked 2018, www.refinery29.com/en-us/2018/09/209827/who-votes-for-emmys-television-academy-voting. 
Rosen, Christopher. “When Are the Emmys? Everything to Know about the 2021 Primetime Emmy Awards.” GoldDerby, GoldDerby, 25 Aug. 2021, www.goldderby.com/feature/when-are-the-emmys-1204330913/.
