History of Taliban
Taliban, which means students in Pashto, was founded in 1994 under the leadership of Mullah Mohammed Omar with 50 madrasah students. From the beginning Taliban was heavily supported by Pakistan and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) provided every need of Taliban during the Afghan civil war . The aim of the organization was to enforce Islamic law in Afghanistan and establish the Afghan Islam Emirate. Within less than three months, the organization managed to incorporate another 15,000 students. At that time, their soon-to-be enemy, the USA, sent them many textbooks for their students which included provocative discourses in favor of the Taliban. 


While the Taliban was enlarging their army of students, Afghanistan was in a civil war, which provided the Taliban with an opportunity to make propaganda . The Taliban gained the public trust by promising the folks a safe and corruption-free environment. In 1995, Taliban took action and started to invade the cities of Afghanistan starting from Kandahar. On April 26th 1996, they invaded Kabul and established Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. 


The Taliban built an empire of fear and oppressiveness. Yet, all the Taliban's utterances were in favour of Pakistan. Since they were the one providing soldiers and money to the Taliban, they got to interfere in the internal politics of Afghanistan. At that time, the public could not receive what they had been promised. Instead, a very strict Islamic Law was enforced on them. The laws were very sexist and restrictive. When someone did not particularly support the Taliban, they were labeled as terrorists; young girls could not go to school after the age of ten and women were forced to wear burqas. Citizens’ basic needs such as food and water were not provided by the Taliban, and the government refused to talk and cooperate with non-muslims although the UN had offered help. 
Furthermore, on April 11th 2001, the Twin Towers incident happened and the US found Al-Qaeda  guilty of the incident. Al-Qaeda‘s Leader was protected by the Taliban in Afghanistan. Al-Qaeda's leader Osama bin Laden demanded to be handed over to America. However the Taliban refused to give him to the US. Hence the US started to take actions under the name of self-defense. They made an alliance that included the Afghan Northern Alliance which was the Taliban’s number one enemy since the civil war. They wanted to occupy Afghanistan even though their actions were not approved by the UN. Thus  UNSC tolerated the actions by saying that what the US was doing was bringing peace and democracy to the region. 
         
On December 9th 2001, Taliban fell after Taliban leader Mullah Omar surrendered the city Kandahar to the US army. With help of ISI, Taliban’s senior officials and soldiers managed to escape to Pakistan. They disappeared from the face of earth for 2 years. Many sources say that they used these two years to regain power and alliances. In 2003, the Taliban made a statement for the first time, saying their new aim was to regain the sovereignty of Afghanistan and fight against anyone who was associated with the US. Up until 2016, the Taliban was involved in many terrorist activities. In 2016 they started to gain their old glory again. Time magazine stated that the Taliban occupied 20% of Afghanistan in 2016. Yet, it was claimed that the Taliban received help from Russia, China, Qatar, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Iran and various terrorist organizations, although it could not be proven.


Until 2020, Taliban made many strategic moves to occupy the province of Afghanistan. They even gained some provinces without any blood spilling. Meanwhile, the US army and government was tired from being in Afghanistan for 20 years. So on February 29th 2020, the US and Taliban made a peace deal that suggested the US would withdraw their troops from Afghanistan with the Taliban's promise that the country would not be used for  terrorist activities. Thus, none of the sides fully implemented the agreement, but they agreed upon the fact that terms could be flexible because there was a pandemic.  After Joe Biden was elected as  the president of the US, one of the first actions he took was to announce that the US would fully withdraw from Afghanistan by 9/11. 


In May 2021, Taliban became more active in the area. They captured all the country's border crossings and most of the provinces. On August 15th, they seized the capital, Kabul. The president of Afghanistan, Ashraf Ghani, escaped to Tajikistan. Also, it is rumoured that the Taliban will declare the Afghan Islamic Emirate again. Yet, these actions of the Taliban did not change the stance of the US. 


Results of all the events in the span of two years also created a huge refugee problem. According to The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), only in this year, five hundred and fifty thousand people left their home in Afghanistan. The refugees travel in inhumane circumstances moreover many countries do not accept them. The countries that accept the Afghan refugees are Iran, Pakistan, Germany, Switzerland and Turkey. Even though they accept the refugees, the problems that come along with them can not be ignored. Issues such as the deterioration of the social order, refugees possibly creating an economic burden for developing countries, and most importantly the lack of interlocutor for these refugees as a result of the absence of  a stable Afghan state. Another problem is that during their advancements, the Taliban treated the citizens, especially the women and kids, in an inhumane manner. In the latest statement that UNICEF made, it is declared that children are being killed and are exposed to extreme violence currently in Afghanistan. 


Lastly a disclaimer:  This article was written on August 16th 2021, and the events happening in the area are very shifting. That is why some parts of this article may no longer be relevant when you read it.

Work Cited
----------
Bundle. “Taliban NASIL BU Kadar Hızlı Ilerledi, Afganistan Ordusu Neden KARŞI KOYAMADI?” Bundle, www.bundlehaber.com/detay/1d05e5cf-a355-441c-9bd3-9aac65eae7bc?l=1.
“Taliban.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taliban#Afganistan_%C4%B0slam_Emirli%C4%9Fi_(1996_%E2%80%93_2001). 
“Afghan Refugees.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 11 Aug. 2021, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Afghan_refugees. 
“Timeline: U.S. War in Afghanistan.” Council on Foreign Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, www.cfr.org/timeline/us-war-afghanistan. 
Bag, Mustafa. “Abd'nin Afganistan'daki Savaşı Nasıl Başladı, Nasıl Bitti?” Euronews, 16 Aug. 2021, tr.euronews.com/2021/08/09/abd-nin-afganistan-daki-savas-nas-l-baslad-nas-l-bitiyor. 
“Afganistan: 10 Soruda 20 Yıllık Savaş.” BBC News Türkçe, BBC, www.bbc.com/turkce/haberler-dunya-57761843. 
“Taliban'ın HIKAYESI: El Kaide, Kabile Ve Mezhep.” Independent Türkçe, 13 Aug. 2021, www.indyturk.com/node/398851/d%C3%BCnya/taliban%E2%80%99%C4%B1n-hikayesi-el-kaide-kabile-ve-mezhep. 
Bag, Mustafa. “Taliban Örgütü Nedir? Nasıl Ortaya Çıktı? ARKASINDA KIMLER VAR?” Euronews, 15 Aug. 2021, tr.euronews.com/2021/08/14/taliban-orgutu-nedir-nasil-ortaya-cikti-amaci-nedir-arkasinda-kimler-var.
“UNHCR: Afganistan'da Yılbaşından Bu YANA 550 Bin Kişi EVINI Terk Etti.” Euronews, 15 Aug. 2021, tr.euronews.com/2021/08/15/unhcr-afganistan-da-y-lbas-ndan-bu-yana-550-bin-kisi-evini-terk-etti. 
“UNICEF: Afganistan'da Son 72 Saatte 27 Çocuk Öldürüldü.” Euronews, 9 Aug. 2021, tr.euronews.com/2021/08/09/unicef-afganistan-da-son-72-saatte-27-cocuk-olduruldu.
