Index Funds and the S&P 500: Simplified
As you are growing up, you probably are surrounded by a lot of adults talking about the significance of saving up. Although saving your money is important to some extent, people usually forget about inflation. So, what is inflation? 


Inflation is basically the decline of a given currency over time. Between the years of 1941 and 2021, the US Dollar averaged a 3.2 percent inflation rate every single year, which simply means that everything you buy costs an average of 3% more the next year. So, saving your money basically means that it will be  losing its value over time. For example, if you put 1 dollar in your piggy bank, after 10 years, that money would not be worth the same because everything would have gone up by 3% each year. Therefore,  you might not be able to buy a cup of coffee a couple of years later with that one-dollar bill.


Then, how can we prevent this? How can we somehow stop our money from losing its value and actually make it gain value over time? This is when investing comes handy. So if you invest in a stock or an index fund with an average annual return of 7%, then you will be earning money because you are earning more than the inflation rate. However, people think that investing in the stock market requires a lot of knowledge, time and even money. Even though this is to some extent true for day traders, who have this as their jobs and follow the stock market every single day and mostly go for high risk high reward stocks, it is not true for a lot of others. To be able to make money from the market, you do not have to deal with a whole deal of complicated stuff and you do not need  to have any background knowledge either. You can even make money without looking at your bank account for 6 months. But how do you do this?


To be able to do this, you have to go for safe investments with an average annual return of more than the inflation rate. This is when index funds come in. Index funds are basically funds that consist of different stocks. So instead of investing in different stocks like Microsoft, Apple, Roku or Pfizer, you put your money in an index fund that distributes your money among these companies. Therefore, if one company goes bankrupt, you do not lose all the money you invested. One of the index funds that is well-known is the S&P 500. The S&P 500 consists of the 500 biggest companies from 11 different industries in the United States. The top 10 companies are as follows: Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook, Alphabet Class A (Google), Alphabet Class B (Google), Tesla, NVIDIA, Berkshire Hathaway Class B and JPMorgan Cheese & Co. By investing in the S&P 500, your money basically gets distributed among these companies plus another 490 other companies. So if you invest 100 dollars in the S&P 500, 6.2 dollars would go to Apple, 5.8 dollars would go to Microsoft, 3.9 dollars would go to Amazon and so on . By doing this, you are simply avoiding any risks because in case a company performs under expectations or even goes bankrupt, you still have 499 other companies to work with, meaning that it is a very safe investment. By just opening a brokerage account and investing in the S&P 500, you can guarantee an average return of 10% every single year. So if you put in 1000 dollars right now, after a year you would have 1100 dollars, 1210 dollars two years later, 1331 dollars three years later and 1464 dollars four years later. Even though 1464 dollars is not worth the same as it was 4 years ago, you are still making more money  than the amount you are losing due to inflation and the shocking part is that you do not even have to do anything after you invest your money.


So this is the secret: investing. This has been around for a very long time but people are just starting to learn about it nowadays. With little to no effort and knowledge, you can simply earn money while in your sleep. It is very simple. Open a brokerage account, save some money and invest that money into a safe index fund like the S&P 500. You do not even have to go into your account for as long as you want andonce you do, you will be shocked with the  results.

--Elif Eren

Work Cited
----------
"United States Inflation Rate | 1914-2021 Data | 2022-2023 Forecast | Calendar". Tradingeconomics.Com, 2021, https://tradingeconomics.com/united-states/inflation-cpi.
"S&P 500 Companies - S&P 500 Index Components By Market Cap". Slickcharts.Com, 2021
