NASA’s Artemis Mission: What is ahead of us?
In May 2019, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator Jim Bridestine, announced a new mission: Artemis, named after the goddess of the moon in Greek mythology, which would aim to land people on the moon after nearly 50 years. So, what really is the Artemis mission? What does it aim to achieve? What is ahead of us?


The Artemis mission will be a crucial milestone for several reasons. Firstly, Artemis will be the first step of sending people to Mars, which is the ultimate goal of the space industry. The moon would provide an opportunity to test new equipment, life support systems and technologies that would be used in future Mars missions. As the NASA Administrator, Bridestine, has stated, the moon missions would “provide grounds” for Mars missions. Furthermore, as a senior scientist who has been actively involved in rover missions on Mars, James Rice, has stated “we need to crawl before we can walk, much less run.” A trip to the moon would take around two days, so in case of a problem that may occur on the way, it would be way easier for NASA to bring back the astronauts safely. On the other hand, a mission to Mars is a much bolder one, which may pose way harsher consequences in case of a lack of planning. A trip to Mars would take nearly six months to complete and since no human missions have been made to the red planet ever, it requires more time, resources and a way more detailed plan. Therefore, going to the moon would act as a first step in achieving the ultimate goal of one day, sending people to Mars.


Furthermore, the Artemis mission would be the first mission to ever send a woman and a person of color to the Moon. The Artemis mission will be achieved with a diverse crew, including highly talented and experienced astronauts such as but not limited to Christina Koch and Stephanie Wilson. Selected as an astronaut in 2013, Christina Hammock Koch holds the record of the longest spaceflight, ever done by a woman, with 328 days. The experienced astronaut has also served as a flight engineer in Expeditions 59, 60 and 61 on the International Space Station. Koch has been breaking boundaries ever since she became an astronaut, and she is aiming to become the first woman to ever go on the moon. Also a part of the Artemis crew, Stephanie Wilson is the second African American woman to ever go to space. Graduated from Harvard, Wilson is a veteran of three spaceflights, STS-121 in 2006, STS-120 in 2007, and STS-131 in 2010. As an African American woman, Stephanie Wilson is looking forward to breaking more records by being the first woman and a person of color to land on the moon.


The date determined by NASA to land people on the Moon is 2024, however, before that there will be several uncrewed and crewed space flights and tests to ensure that the procedure can run as smoothly as possible when the big day comes. With Artemis II, the crew will go on a 10-day test flight to ensure that the space communication and navigation systems are working and all of the necessary preparations are done. Also, the crew in Artemis II will set the record for the furthest human travel from Earth. After Artemis II and many other test flights, Artemis III will launch, which would aim to land people on the Moon. As the launch date rapidly approaches, NASA is continuing its preparations to meet their goals.


The Artemis mission will be humanity’s return to the Moon. 52 years ago it all started with a small step, and over five decades later the world is ready for a new human endeavor. We, humans, have always pushed the boundaries of science and technology with new innovations, missions and emerging technologies with, hopefully, the Artemis mission being one of them. As the NASA Administrator stated, the Artemis mission will be one of the many missions that will focus on “uniting people around the unknown, the never seen, and the once impossible”. The Artemis mission will be the first step of achieving what was entitled to be impossible and as it hopefully achieves its goals, a bright future will be ahead of humanity.

--Elif Eren

Work Cited
----------
"NASA: Artemis". NASA, 2021, https://www.nasa.gov/specials/artemis/.
Nasa.Gov, 2021, https://www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/atoms/files/artemis_plan-20200921.pdf.
"Moon To Mars Overview". NASA, 2021, https://www.nasa.gov/topics/moon-to-mars/overview/.
"Stephanie D. Wilson". NASA, 2021, https://www.nasa.gov/astronauts/biographies/stephanie-d-wilson.
"Christina H. Koch". NASA, 2021, https://www.nasa.gov/astronauts/biographies/christina-h-koch.
Koren, Marina. "The Pros And Cons Of A Lunar Pit Stop". The Atlantic, 2021, https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2020/02/nasa-moon-mars-artemis/606499/.
