Let The Shopping Come To Us Instead
Pandemic and Restrictions


One of the things that the COVID-19 Pandemic has globally impaired is the economy. With the unprecedented pandemic coming out of nowhere, countries all around the world have been caught off-guard in terms of everything. No heads up, no action plan to take, no preparations… However, some things had to be done and the priority was to stop the disease from spreading in order to not further increase the scale of the illness. With one of the ultimate goals which is keeping the illness from spreading rapidly, certain restrictions were taken dependent on the country and time. However, every precaution that was taken to slow down the spread of the virus is basically slowing down life outside homes. With those aspects in mind, drastic steps have been taken. One of the most preeminent ones being curfews and lockdowns that were limitations to live beyond the confines of our houses. This led to major changes in the social and economical lives of people and slowed both greatly. Of course, with these restrictions, most of the global economy, especially during the second half of 2020, has distinctly shrunk. In Turkey, although the economy has been growing for the first quarter of 2020, it had significantly plummeted as the pandemic has become more of a threat than ever throughout the year. However, the steps to normalcy starting from the summer had their benefits to the sectors that have suffered the most after being out of business for approximately a year.


How Did Shopping Habits Change During The Pandemic


During the pandemic, the already growing interest in online shopping has increased drastically. With the lockdowns and curfews, online shopping became more and more widespread. Besides its accessibility, online shopping also saves time, creates opportunities to choose between more options and bargaining, and also helps to avoid the spread of catching the disease since it decreases contact. During the epitome of the pandemic, the interest in online shopping has also increased. Compared to 2019, there has been an 85 percent increase in online shopping near the end of 2020. 


Effects on Business


E-commerce increases day by day and it seems like it will continue to do so in the future. However, tourism-thus hotels-, retail, cafes and restaurants, and such places and sectors suffered that greatly. With the restrictions as well, the workers in those sectors were one of the people that had it worse during this pandemic. Those places that people used to be swarmed with are now deserted. Also, it should be noted that during this process of adjusting to COVID-19 in our daily lives, some business owners had the foresight of trying to create a system to integrate their business online. With that, those that did so were able to cushion their fall when other waves hit the country later on. However, there are still the ones who were unable to do so. The ones unable to adapt to the pandemic now look forward to the increase of endeavors to bring normalcy all throughout the country. And it is observed to be getting better each time the government tries to do so while trying to keep the number of cases in reign. Let’s hope that more and more businesses will be trying to join in on e-commerce and will utilize the internet to be prepared for whatever future holds for humankind. 

--Rana Uluçay


Work Cited
----------                                                   
Kalkan, P. (2021). Pandemi Ekonomisinin İnternet Alışverişine Etkilerinin Analizi, Sosyal, Beşeri ve İdari Bilimler Dergisi, 4(8): 740-758.
Çelik, Pınar. E-Commerce Sales In Turkey Skyrocket By 300% As Consumers Turn To Digital Options. 2021, https://www.dailysabah.com/business/economy/e-commerce-sales-in-turkey-skyrocket-by-300-as-consumers-turn-to-digital-options. Accessed 26 Sept 2021.
