Tesla's New Humanoid Robot
On Tesla’s AI day, which took place on Thursday August 19th in Palo Alto, the founder and CEO of the company, Elon Musk, has announced the new Tesla Bot, a new humanoid robot which would have its first prototype ready by 2022. Musk has stated that this robot would be able to easily perform “boring, repetitive and dangerous” tasks and completely eliminate the burden of dealing with household chores every single day, but what could the new Tesla bot mean to the future of humanity? 


According to Musk, the Tesla Bot will be 5 foot 8 inches tall (172 centimeters) and weigh at around 125 lbs (56 kilograms). The robot will have a screen display on its face and have 40 electromechanical actuators. Going at a speed of 5 miles per hour and being able to carry around 45 lbs, the new robot seems to be quite indifferent compared to a normal human being. The robot will also use Tesla’s vehicle AI, by using its autopilot technology with the help of up to eight cameras. Made out of lightweight materials, the new Tesla bot “is intended to be friendly, of course” says Elon Musk, jokingly, however, this overly optimistic approach of Musk has of course raised many concerns among his audience.


Firstly, many people have been very worried about the capabilities of the new Tesla robot and what it could possibly entail in the future. It is undeniable that Tesla’s full self-driving cars  are not completely efficient, and are responsible for several crashes and incidents, and this worries people, since the robot would be navigating the same way as Tesla’s autopilot cars. Also, since a single year is a very short amount of time to create such a complex system, which efficiently navigates itself, so therefore, people believe that it is nearly impossible to execute such a project in such a short period of time. 


Furthermore, with automation in jobs increasing, job opportunities have massively decreased, leading to more unemployed people. Considering that the automotive industry has lost around half a million jobs during the 2000s, this AI supported robot could also cause an increase in unemployment rates. Although such an impact would not be experienced right now, as time goes on and as the Tesla Bot develops and expands its skillset, a possible problem regarding unemployment might further worsen. As a result, the inevitable ending would simply be the deterioration of a country’s economy, since a huge amount of people would simply be left with no stream of income. Although the idea of physical activity being a choice in the future might bring great comfort to some, it could also lead to several issues for others. 


Moreover, another concern has been regarding the possibility of these robots, some day, exceeding the level of human intelligence. According to Elon Musk, the Tesla Bot would be limited to a maximum of 5 miles per hour, (8 kilometers per hour) meaning that a human could easily overpower the robot, however, some believe that this could easily get out of hand in the near future, with new developments and updates. No one can ever know what kind of a future we could possibly face, and only time will show us the real face of humanoid robots.


In conclusion, with new technological advancements taking place, new concerns and questions are arising. The new Tesla Bot might be the pioneer of humanoid robots and could entirely change the lives’ of people forever, or could make things even worse. The question of humanoid robots is still unanswered, and Tesla’s new bot might be the first one answering it.

--Elif Eren

Work Cited
----------
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/elon-musk-tesla-humanoid-robot/
https://abc7chicago.com/tesla-ai-day-robots-robot-workers/10964049/
https://www.cnet.com/news/elon-musk-unveils-tesla-bot-a-humanoid-robot-utilizing-vehicle-ai/
https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2021/08/tesla-bot-is-the-companys-troubled-autopilot-system-in-humanoid-form/

