The Story of an Olympic Gold Medalist Diver with an Unusual Quarantine Hobby
Tom Daley, born on the 21st of May 1994, has started diving at the age of seven, and has been competing in the olympics ever since he was 14. The Olympic gold and bronze medalist, five time European champion and four time Commonwealth champion is the first ever  British diver to win four Olympic medals. However, his trophy collection is not the only reason why he has gained this much popularity on the internet. The experienced British diver has also had the social media spotlight for his unusual quarantine hobby: knitting. 


The gold medalist in the 10-meter synchronized platform jump of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, as well as the bronze medalist of the 10-meter platform jump, Daley, has been knitting his way through his entire Tokyo 2020 Olympics experience. He has knitted a white cardigan, dedicated to his Great Britain family, and a small pouch to keep his gold medal from scratching with the British and Japanese flags on both sides. When asked about his unusual obsession, he points out how “knitting and crochet and all things stitching” kept him “sane” through the Olympics.


To document his entire knitting journey and share it with the world, Daley has started an Instagram account, “madewithlovebytomdaley” in September 2020. With a huge fanbase of 1.4 million followers, Daley posts his crochet cardigans, colorful ties, jumpers, jackets, blankets, cute amigurumis (the crocheting of miniature figures) and even cat couches. Daley’s enthusiasm, positivity and use of hilarious captions have helped him gain massive recognition and admiration from not only the sports community, but the whole world. Daley’s account is still growing very rapidly and the positivity he radiates has helped him become a role model for the next generation.


Apart from being a huge fan of knitting, Daley has also been proudly representing the LGBTQ+ community. After winning the Olympic gold medal, Daley had opened up to the whole world on how he always felt alone and different throughout his life. He also shared some motivating words with the LGBTQ youth by letting them know that they are not alone and that they can achieve anything they desire. In his final words, he expressed how “incredibly proud” he was to say that he was “a gay man and an Olympic champion.”


With his great dedication and commitment, Tom Daley has managed to achieve the unachievable. By becoming the youngest to reach the finals of the 2008 Summer Olympics at the age of fourteen, Daley had first entered the headlines of the sports world with a bang. Ever since, he has continued to be an amazing role model for the youth and for the LGBTQ community. Despite all of the negativity he has faced throughout his life, Daley has always managed to bring positivity and enthusiasm whenever the world needed him the most. Whether it has been with his unique knitting and crochet works, his astonishing talent and hard work; or his hilarious captions, Tom Daley is and will always continue to be an inspiration for everyone watching him.

--Elif Eren

Work Cited
----------
image. 2021, https://i.insider.com/610bedea38aff700188ffde7?width=700. Accessed 18 Aug 2021.
image. 2021, https://mymodernmet.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/tom-daley-knitting-tokyo-olympics-1.jpg. Accessed 18 Aug 2021.
"NPR Cookie Consent And Choices". Npr.Org, 2021, https://www.npr.org/sections/tokyo-olympics-live-updates/2021/08/02/1023738433/tom-daley-knitting-olympics.
"Tom Daley Knits Cosy For Olympic Games Gold Medal". Abc.Net.Au, 2021, https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021-08-02/tom-daley-knitting-gold-medal-diving-tokyo-olympics/100343476.
"Tom Daley Acts As A Beacon Of Hope For LGBTQ Youth Who May Feel Alone". Tokyo 2020, 2021, https://olympics.com/tokyo-2020/en/news/tom-daley-sends-rallying-cry-to-lgbtq-youth-you-are-not-alone.
