The Texas Abortion Law
You may have heard ‘The Texas Aboriton Law’ or ‘The Texas Abortion Ban’ in the latest news. Well the question of; what is the new ‘Texas Abortion Law’? Well, it is a new law that bans abortion after 6 weeks of being pregnant. This law is by far the most strict law in the U.S. 6 weeks is before a lot of people discover that they are even pregnant. And the law makes no exceptions for victims of rape or any other traumatic experiences for that matter. Imagine this; you’ve been pregnant with an unwanted child about 8 weeks, you’ve just found out that you’re pregnant and you can’t even get an abortion because of a technicality. Technically you can still get an abortion if you’re pregnant, but only for 6 weeks. So technically you do have a choice of wanting a baby or not, but only for a certain amount of time. So let me get this straight; technically, women have bodily autonomy, but only for 6 weeks?! 

Multiple court challenges to the law are underway, including several lawsuits in state court in Texas targeting anti-abortion-rights groups including Texas Right to Life. Abortion rights groups are also organizing protests and demonstrations in Texas in opposition to the law. 

Even the president has now spoken up about this horrendous law that limits women’s choices about their bodies. President Joe Biden released a “whole-of-government” response to oppose a new law in Texas. Biden called the Supreme Court’s decision not to block the law an “unprecedented assault” on women’s rights. 

It still baffles me how we live in a world where a woman is scared to even go for a walk and yet still every single human right she has is slowly but surely taken away from her. This is not about pro-life, this is about a woman, a human being, having the right to do whatever they want with their body (which by the way is completely their business anyway). In a world of such horror we shouldn’t be tearing each other down (especially the ones who are marginalized), we should be lifting each other up, giving a hand to one another so that we can have a brighter future as humankind. 

--Ekin Toker

Work Cited
----------
Explainer: What is the Texas abortion ban and why does it matter?
Ravindran
https://edition.cnn.com/2021/09/03/us/what-is-texas-abortion-law-as-equals-intl-cmd/index.html
Texas abortion: Biden vows 'whole-of-government' response to new law
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-58424249
What The Texas Abortion Ban Does - And What It Means For Other States
McCammon
https://www.npr.org/2021/09/01/1033202132/texas-abortion-ban-what-happens-next
