What is up with NASA’s Perseverance Rover?
Perseverance, the rover of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), has been on Mars since February 2021, taking on crucial tasks that provide us with significant details about the past and the future of the red planet. Then what has Perseverance achieved during this 6 month period and what is ahead of it?


Launched on the 30th of July 2020 as a part of the Mars 2020 mission, Perseverance landed on the Jezero Crater of Mars on the 18th of February 2021. Serving as a vital tool to help humanity gain more information about the ancient life of Mars, the rover collects samples of rocks and regolith, so that those can be studied when a possible return to Earth is feasible. During this 6-month period, Perseverance has provided us with various photographs that are crucial for understanding the living conditions on Mars. The rover has sent photographs from its landing destination, the Jezero Crater, a 49 kilometer wide crater located just north of the planet's equator. Apart from these, several close-up photos of soil and rocks were taken to help us gain information about the geological features of the planet. The rover has now taken hundreds of photos from numerous angles and will continue to send its high-resolution images during its mission, so that scientists can evaluate them and draw conclusions regarding the historical timeline of the planet.


Furthermore, Perseverance carried Ingenuity, a small helicopter that became the first aircraft to complete a controlled flight on another planet. Powered by its very own solar panels, the 1.8 kilogram helicopter completed its first of many test flights on the 19th of April 2021, where it climbed up 3 meters and hovered in the air. After this, the helicopter completed many more test flights where it hovered for way longer distances.  Being able to fly an aircraft on a planet that is 54.6 million kilometers away with an atmosphere as thin as 1% of the Earth’s atmosphere shows how humanity can achieve the unimaginable. Also, in the honor of the Wright brothers, who achieved the first controlled airplane flight on Earth in 1903, Ingenuity carried a small piece of the fabric taken from the plane’s wing, and besides, the location of the first flight has been named as the Wright Brothers Field, which pay tributes to the courageous pioneers that have accomplished the unthinkable more than a century ago. 


Lastly, Perseverance has been working to collect its first rock samples that could help NASA massively in its research regarding the history of Mars, and a possibility of a microbial life having one day existed on the planet. Understanding the geological processes that created the surface of Mars and its developments, we can grasp a more thorough understanding of Mars, Earth, and even our own solar system. Many scientists believe that Mars had been full of life with lakes and more water sources around 3.5 billion years ago. Verifying this theory would help us realize how life has occurred and developed on Mars, helping us understand the occurrence of life on our planet as well. Also, it would make us realize that we are not alone in this universe and it would eradicate the self-centered thoughts of many. Therefore, with every conclusion that we draw from new research done on Mars, we can draw parallels between the red planet and our own Earth, helping us grasp a more thorough understanding of our own planet’s history, and possibly what is ahead of us. 


In conclusion, Perseverance has been a milestone for humanity with what it brings to us. This powerful mission emphasizes the importance of space exploration and how it can be crucial for us to widen our perspectives to learn more about not only ourselves and our planet, but about the mystery of the universe. Perseverance might be a small step, but it definitely is the first of many. With breakthrough innovations like Perseverance and Ingenuity, we will continue to excel in science and technology. 

--Elif Eren
