Liverpool Loses Its World Heritage Status
Liverpool, the home of The Beatles and the origin of Liverpool FC, was given the ‘World Heritage’ title in 2004. In order to gain this title, the sites have to be of “cultural and/or natural significance which is so exceptional as to transcend national boundaries and to be of common importance for present and future generations of all humanity,” according to UNESCO.

The six areas that were designated are Pier Head, Royal Albert Dock, Stanley Dock, Castle Street, William Brown Street and Lower Duke Street. 
The foundation of Pier Head dates back to the 18th century when the city was involved in the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade. The Royal Albert Dock was designed by Jesse Hartley (1780-1860) and Philip Hardwick RA (1792-1870) and was opened by Prince Albert in 1846. It includes monumental dockside warehouses grouped around a system of historic docks. Castle Street dates back to when the city was still a medieval town. It was a route to and from the ports and the castle. The castle is thought to have been built by William de Ferres, the 4th Earl of Derby. At the other end of Castle Street lies the Liverpool Town Hall, built between 1749 and 1754. William Street, sometimes referred to as ‘’Cultural Quarter’’, is remarkable for its public buildings. Some of the buildings that are present on the Street are: Lime Street Station, St George's Hall, William Brown Library and Museum, Walker Art Gallery, Picton Reading Room and Hornby Library, Liverpool Empire Theatre and many more. Lastly, the Lower Duke Street
 
However, with Liverpool’s modern developments such as the ‘Liverpool Waters’ project and plans to build Everton FC’s new stadium, the World Heritage Committee argue that Liverpool will not be able to fit into the criteria anymore, as it will ‘’deteriorate’’ Liverpool’s ‘’outstanding universal value’’ irreversibly. Tian Xuejun, the chair of UNESCO World Heritage committee, announced the decision during a virtual conference hosted in China. Along with Oman’s Arabian Oryx Sanctuary in 2007 and the Dresden Elbe valley in Germany in 2009, Liverpool is only the third place that lost the statue and therefore is in a humiliating position.

--Elif Akın

Work Cited
----------
“Explore Our World Heritage Site.” Liverpool World Heritage, 26 Mar. 2019, www.liverpoolworldheritage.com/explore-our-world-heritage-site/.
Centre, UNESCO World Heritage. “World Heritage COMMITTEE DELETES LIVERPOOL - Maritime Mercantile City From UNESCO's World Heritage List.” UNESCO World Heritage Centre, 21 July 2021, whc.unesco.org/en/news/2314.
--Elif Akın
