The Hong Kong Protests
Intro
On 19 September 2021, 0.06% of the population voted to choose the election committee that will decide the seats of LegCo, the Parliament of Hong Kong and later choose a new leader for Hong Kong. This number is a decrease from the 233 thousand people that were allowed to vote to choose the committee in 2016. The selected 4800 citizens that are allowed to vote were all chosen from pro-establishment circles and all the candidates were pro-Beijing. With the revamped electoral system, it was ensured that only “patriots administer Hong Kong” and all “anti-China” elements were removed. As China introduced the vetting system, which required all candidates to pledge loyalty to Beijing’s rule, all opposition including pro-democracy candidates were suppressed. However, there are many reasons why China has tightened its grip over Hong Kong, infringing upon its autonomy which will be explored in this piece.
 
Background
After the First Opium War, China handed Hong Kong over to Britain. In 1984, the Joint Declaration between China and the UK was signed. The Declaration constituted that Hong Kong would be under China’s rule in 1997 on the conditions that it would have autonomy over its economic system and a partially democratic political system for 50 years after the signing (one country, two systems).
Effective until 2047, the Sino-British Joint Declaration guarantees the protection of the rights of Hong Kongers. At least it was supposed to. In July 2019, the Extradition Bill was passed igniting the first of many protests. The bill would have allowed criminal suspects in Hong Kong to be extradited to mainland China to be tried. Many critics and officials spoke against this law saying that this risked Hongkongers to “unfair trials and violent treatment” (BBC). Hundreds of thousands of protestors rallied on the streets. After several weeks of demonstrations, Carrie Lim had announced that the bill was suspended indefinitely. Unsatisfied with the suspension, protests continued which by now have become more violent turning more and more into riots with police brutality and vandalism becoming serious problems. In September 2019, the bill was finally withdrawn however protestors claimed that it was “too little, too late” (BBC).  On October 1, the day that marked the anniversary of 70th year of Communist Party rule, one of the most chaotic and violent rallies took place where an 18-year-old was shot in the chest by a police officer.  Seeing that there was no end to the protests, the government made it illegal for protestors to wear face masks to identify the protestors easily. This sparked worry among the community as, without face masks, protestors were at risk of detention, persecution, and jail time. Later in November, local council elections were held, and the public opinion was clear in the vote – with 17 of the 18 councils in the hands of pro-democracy councillors. However, On 30 June 2020, a security law was passed an hour before the 23rd anniversary of the end of the British rule of Hong Kong. The New Security Law allows Beijing to have an enormous say over life in Hong Kong. Critics have said that it “effectively curtails protest and freedom of speech” whereas China has said “it will return stability”. Protests and mass rallies have substantially decreased both in size and frequency, with most pro-democracy activists/protestors/journalists and important figures either in jail or fleeing the region.
 
Five Demands Not One Less
Some demonstrators have come up with the motto “Five demands, not one less”. Those demands are :
-The protests to be not categorised as “riots”
-Amnesty for arrested protestors
-An independent inquiry into alleged police brutality
-Implementation of complete universal suffrage
-Withdrawal of the Extradition Bill
So far only one demand has been met with and most likely, from the way everything is uncoiling in, with the New Security Law and a revamped electoral system to make sure only patriots rule Hong Kong, it is highly unlikely the rest of the demands will be met within the close future.
 
Who makes up most of the protestors?
Most of the protestors are young people that are afraid of the future that awaits them. With Beijing imposing more laws that tighten its control over the region, the autonomy of Hong Kong is in serious question. The reason why Beijing has started to take drastic measures is since most of the young generations have identified themselves as Hongkongers, not Chinese with only 11% of the participants in a survey conducted by the University of Hong Kong calling themselves Chinese and 71% of people expressing that they do not feel proud of being called Chinese citizens.
 
Summary of the Situation
After years of protest, not much has been achieved for the pro-democracy movement. With most of the pro-democracy politicians and activists now in jail or outside of Hong Kong, the New Security Law that now makes it possible to identify protestors as terrorists that challenge the Beijing rule and to take away their right to a trial, and the newly revamped electoral system, things are not looking bright for the young citizens of Hong Kong that are against the Chinese rule. As 2047 nears, Beijing continues to increase its presence both politically and socially in the semi-autonomous region, Hong Kong.
 
Works Cited
-----------
“The Hong Kong Protests Explained in 100 and 500 Words.” BBC News, BBC, 28 Nov. 2019, www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-49317695. 
“China Anniversary: Hong Kong Protester Shot by Live Round.” BBC News, BBC, 1 Oct. 2019, www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-49891403. 
“Hong Kong Polytechnic University: Protesters Attempt Sewer Escapes.” BBC News, BBC, 20 Nov. 2019, www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-50486757. 
Hughes, Helier Cheung & Roland. “Why Are There Protests in Hong Kong? All the Context You Need.” BBC News, BBC, 21 May 2020, www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-48607723. 
Person, and Alun John Sara Cheng. “Hong Kong's First 'Patriots-Only' Election Kicks Off.” Reuters, Thomson Reuters, 19 Sept. 2021, www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/hong-kongs-first-patriots-only-election-kicks-off-2021-09-18/. 
“'Puppet Showmen': Hong Kong Elite Vote in 'Patriots Only' Election Process.” The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 19 Sept. 2021, www.theguardian.com/world/2021/sep/19/hong-kong-elite-vote-patriots-only-election-process. 
“Hong Kong Profile - Timeline.” BBC News, BBC, 24 June 2019, www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-pacific-16526765. 
“Hong Kong Formally Scraps Extradition Bill That Sparked Protests.” BBC News, BBC, 23 Oct. 2019, www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-50150853. 
“Hong Kong Security Law: What Is It and Is It Worrying?” BBC News, BBC, 30 June 2020, www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-52765838.
