Are Preservatives in Food Bad for Your Health?
What are Preservatives and Why are They Important?
When food is left outside for days, even several hours, it can go bad. There are two reasons behind the spoilage of food – microbes and oxidation. Microbes such as bacteria may invade food to feed off its nutrients. Some of these may cause serious illnesses such as botulism and listeria, which may put you in a critical condition. Oxidation is a chemical change in the food’s molecules that can be caused by enzymes or free radicals. Oxidation turns fats rancid which results in brown produce that is visible on spoiled fruits like apples. Preservatives fight off against both types of deterioration and make sure that your food does not go to waste. Preservatives are especially important as rates of hunger around the globe have increased as poverty rates climb up, with food shortages becoming more common by the day.
 
Types of Preservation
Chemical preservation relies on the addition of several substances that incite chemical reactions to preserve food. An example of a natural chemical preservative is acidic substances such as vinegar. The ethanoic acid unravels the enzymes’ molecular shape that causes oxidation, hence preserving the food. Another example is bacteria that produce lactic acid which can be commonly found in yoghurt.
Artificial chemical preservatives are also mostly acidic with examples being benzoic acid in salads, sorbic acid in cheese and propionic acid in baked goods. There have been many studies on whether these synthesised preservatives are safe and whilst some of the studies’ results indicate that especially benzoates, related to benzoic acid cause hyperactive behaviour, however, these results are not conclusive and the U.S FDA has approved of all the preservatives that are currently in use for preservation in supermarkets. However, as with everything moderation is key to make sure that your health is not badly affected by preservatives.
Other preservatives include salt (meats) and sugar (jams). Sugar and salt hold on to the water that the microbes need to grow and absorb moisture from any cells present in the substance thus killing off any microbes in the food (TED-ed)
Physical preservation methods include refrigeration, smoking, and drying. These techniques have been used for more than several centuries and are still in use today. To make sure that our food is completely safe to be consumed, many preservation techniques should be used at the same time. For example, apples that have antioxidant preservatives should be stored in a refrigerator regardless.
 
Preservatives and their alleged associated health problems
Benzoates – hyperactive behaviour
Salt and sugar – the elevated risk of cardiac diseases such as heart attacks, diabetes, and high blood pressure
Nitrates and nitrites (found in cured meats) – colon cancer
Sulfites – may trigger allergic reactions in some people
 
Overall, preservatives are a vital part of our daily lives as, without them, we would have to shop daily for food spending thousands of dollars on apples, bananas, and beans alike. However, we should also be mindful of the possible health risks associated with these preservatives and so we should shop mindfully, fully aware of what we are buying and the contents of the products we are purchasing. 

Works Cited
-----------
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZJU34yTJL4M
https://www.canr.msu.edu/news/preservatives-keeping-our-foods-safe-fresh
