Coffee – Good or Bad 
Many of us need to have our daily dose of caffeine at 6:30 in the morning to prepare ourselves for a long day. Most likely, you have wondered at least once whether coffee is bad for your health. But before that question is answered, we need to understand what coffee is and its components.
 
All about coffee 
Caffeine is the first term that comes to mind when coffee is mentioned. Caffeine is a chemical stimulator that increases your adrenaline levels, thus making you feel more energetic and vivid. Caffeine works by stopping the inhibitory neurotransmitter adenosine which leads to neurotransmitters like dopamine and norepinephrine to increase hence causing you to feel elevated and energetic.
Coffee also features a lot of antioxidants that clear out free radicals in your body (harmful free electrons that cause unwanted reactions in your body) as well as beneficial nutrients.
Last of all, coffee contains cafestol and kahweol which are thought to raise LDL levels in the body. LDL, often labelled as ‘bad’ cholesterol, leads to many cardiac diseases such as atherosclerosis and heart attacks. However, as the amount of these substances in coffee is minuscule, there are no risks for those who have low or moderate cholesterol levels. However, those with high cholesterol should limit their coffee intake per day to at most 2 cups.
 
Health Benefits of Coffee
Coffee is an incredible natural resource that we can easily take daily to keep ourselves healthy. However, it should be consumed in moderation and coffee on its own does not make you healthier – vegetables, carbs and proteins are still required
-Cancer: Several studies have found that coffee may lower the risk of certain cancers. One study found prostate cancer in men by 20 %, and endometrial cancer in women by 25 %. In another study, involving 489,706 people found that people who drank 4-5 cups of coffee had 15% less chance of developing colorectal cancer.
 
-Feeling energetic/alert/great: As explained in the ‘All About Coffee’ section, caffeine can alter your mood by inhibiting some neurotransmitters and encouraging others to increase their transmission thus making you feel less fatigued. 
 
-Mental Health (depression in particular): A Harvard study in 2011 found that women who drank 4 or more cups of coffee had 25% less risk of becoming depressed and a study consisting of 208,424 people found that people who drank 4 or more cups of coffee had 53% lower risk of committing suicide.
 
-Burning fats: Most fat-burning supplements contain caffeine. This is due to caffeine’s amazing success at increasing metabolic rates (3%-11%). It’s one of the only natural sources that are thought to help with fat-burning. Additionally, it may help you lose weight as it contains magnesium and potassium, which regulate blood sugar levels (by prompting the body to use insulin), reducing your feeling of hunger – especially for sweets 
 
-Lower risk of Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and dementia: Several studies show that people who drink coffee have up to a 65% less chance of having Alzheimer’s disease (Healthline). Other studies have shown that continuous coffee drinking decreases the risk of Parkinson’s disease by 25 %. There’s evidence that coffee stimulates a part of the brain affected by Parkinson’s (Warriorcoffee).
 
But Coffee isn’t All Good 
There are still some side effects of drinking coffee excessively. These include insomnia and restlessness especially for those that are caffeine sensitive and an increased risk of bed-wetting in children which is why it is not recommended that children drink more than 0.5-2 cups of coffee (depending on the child’s age) per day (JohnHopkins). However, it is necessary to mention that the American Academy of Paediatrics discourages any amount of caffeine intake for children. Additionally, pregnant women should not drink more than a cup per day as caffeine can have negative impacts on the fetus’ health (Warriorcoffee). People with high cholesterol should also be cautious when drinking large amounts of coffee regularly as it can put them in a riskier spot for heart disease.
 

Bibliography : 
https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/top-13-evidence-based-health-benefits-of-coffee#TOC_TITLE_HDR_8
https://blog.warriorcoffee.com/blog/12-health-benefits-and-6-disadvantages-of-coffee-smashing-it
https://www.hopkinsallchildrens.org/ACH-News/General-News/Is-Coffee-Bad-for-Kids
