Bob Ross: Happy Accidents, Betrayal & Greed 
Bob Ross, born on 29 October 1942, was an American painter, art instructor, and host of the well-known television show The Joy of Painting. Ross’ interest in painting, roots back to the times he spent in his Air-Force career (1961-1982). After attending an art class in the Anchorage U.S.O. club, he discovered his passion for painting. Later on, while working as a part-time bartender, Ross found himself to be amazed by the TV show called The Magic of Oil Painting, hosted by Bill Alexander, a German painter. He used a style of painting called wet-on-wet (alla prima in Italian) where he could paint in 30 minutes. Bob Ross, being extremely inspired by this technique, studied and mastered it, and started selling Alaskan landscape paintings.


The Netflix documentary, moving away from the usual style of documentaries which would use traditional reenactments in either animation or live-action, uses scenes painted in Ross’ style. Along with this creative technique, the sound design is also innovative, since it is possible to hear paintbrushes sweeping across the canvas as clear as if it is live-action.


The documentary, while attempting to share the aspects of his career that were invisible to the camera, also tells the story of Bob Ross’ adult son, Steve Ross, who shows up in the early episodes of The Joy of Painting and continues to make appearances throughout. According to Steve, his father’s memory was improperly commercialized by longtime business partners who won control of his name and likeness, which is the documentary’s main focus. Steve also states that, when his father was nearing death, the Kowalskis asked him to convince Bob Ross to sign a ‘memorial agreement’. He says, “It looked to me like they were trying to get Bob to sign his name over to them,” and that, “You could hear him screaming, ‘I’m not giving you my name’ (…) They literally wanted to steal Dad’s name, and did.” In terms of lifting the veil between the viewer and what was happening behind the camera, the documentary functions as a useful tool. 


However, when the family who is behind Bob Ross Inc. watched the documentary, they attacked the director, Joshua Rofe, on the account of his direction being “inaccurate and heavily slanted.” Another complaint by the company was that “While the producers of the Netflix film did contact Bob Ross Inc. twice, in late August and October 2020, each request arrived replete with a confounding lack of transparency,” and that, “At no time did they pose specific questions to Bob Ross Inc. or ask for any form of rebuttal to specific assertions they had decided to include in the film.” (3). Additionally, although it is not a major issue, the credits section of the documentary exposes that the viewer only gets to hear one side of the story. The reason for this is that many people who knew Bob Ross had declined to take part in the documentary as interviewers, due to the fear that they would face legal retaliation. Therefore, the truthfulness of the documentary or the story itself remains a contradiction.

--Elif Akın

Work Cited 
----------
Strohl, Sarah. “Bob Ross.” Experience.bobross.com, 26 Aug. 2021, experience.bobross.com/
 “Kelebek.” Bob Ross Kimdir? Ne Zaman Öldü?, 5 Feb. 2021, 15:52, www.hurriyet.com.tr/kelebek/hayat/bob-ross-kimdir-ne-zaman-oldu-41733688. 
Kinsella, Eileen. “Bob Ross's Former Business Partners Hit Back at a 'Slanted' Netflix Documentary That Alleges They Seized Control of His Legacy.” Artnet News, Artnet News, 27 Aug. 2021, news.artnet.com/art-world/bob-ross-documentary-netflix-2003207.
