10 Mind Blowing Conspiracy Theories  
Disclaimer: You just have been clickbaited
I grew up with the internet and on Youtube, conspiracy theory videos were my favourite. Nearly every conspiracy channel was talking about how books and movies were predicting the future. Yet, at a certain age I understood that the TV shows or books were not soothsayers. For example, the Simpsons did predict the future with the help of some underground cult. They could see a pandemic coming from analysing the history or they could foresee Trump being the president because they knew how society works. So, the creators were just very clever and had farsighted writers. 


Though dystopian and futuristic books/films do predict the future because the writers analyse the current era deftly, such as Jules Verne and Ray Bradbury who are the authors of all-time hits such as Fahrenheit 451, Martian Chronicles, Journey to the Moon. They included many futuristic technologies in their books that we use today as daily life such as Airpods, travelling to space and video conference technologies. At their time, the elements they described were way far beyond what people could imagine. Yet, imagining the unimaginable was also their skill that made them cognoscenti of the science fiction genre.  Because they had a great accumulation of science and technology behind them, they knew that the imaginations in their books were pretty likely to be invented soon. Time proved them right and numerous predictions of these authors became the new realities of the modern world. Dystopian books were no longer an alternative, but rather a new world order. 


For instance, 1984 by George Orwell was written approximately 70 years ago but it describes the modern world in many aspects. Hence this brings the question to mind: “Are we living in a dystopian society?” The answer is yes, in a way. For example, the book talks about how “Big Brother” is always watching and controlling the society by the media. Similarly in today’s world people have an average of 8 hours of screen time. In that 8-hour-long period, they are being exposed to materials which they would not normally choose to encounter and are being gradually manipulated. This technological setup has become the exact same tactic of brainwashing in 1984. 


Moreover, the book also touches on the matter of police brutality.In the book police have unlimited power as long as what they are doing is parallel with “Big Brother’s’’ ideology. They can even torture a person until they make them say 2+2 is equal 5. The sad part about this bit is that police brutality is still an alive issue of the world. Police can get away with many just by supporting a certain political party or ideology. This makes the social order more chaotic than ever. 
Furthermore in the book “Big Brother '' corrupts the education system, changes the perception of history and makes arguments in his favor. In effect, this is exactly what is happening in Afghanistan right now. Taliban first corrupt the education system by teaching students the radical Islam. Then, they villinase the USA and create themselves a story of victory. 
Last but not the least, in the book the government creates an army of submissive people who do not question anything at all and accept the authorities’ word as the mere truth.Similarly in the modern world, someone sets a fashion trend or a beauty standard and everyone tries to follow it without asking “why”  which creates the “consumption” based society of the capitalist theory and puts money into the pockets of fashion companies so that the governments get to gain more taxes on them. Hence, suppression and ignorance become a way of making money for governments and corporations.


Another reason as to why modern society might be defined as a dystopia can be explored through Fahrenheit 451 which is a book written 70 years ago. In the novel, book burning is the new occupation of firemen and they have a society based on perfect happiness that is surrounded by technology. People always have earbud-radios on their ears, which are the modern world’s Airpods, and they have fake families that are on TV, which can be associated with today’s social media where we spend hours scrolling up and down people’s lives. Government teaches people to not think. They portray thinking as equivalent to pain. Thus, people try to distract themselves at all costs in order not to think. Even though these seem very excessive, this is exactly the world we live in. Maybe we do not burn books yet. However, the number of books that are read in a year and the age groups reading these have an indirect relationship. As we grow older, we begin to get lost in the chaos of life. We do not want to spend our limited free time reading books. As a result, the dystopian society of ignorance is created literally.


In conclusion, these predictions are not made to speculate nor these parallels between the imagination and reality are drawn to create conspiracy theories. These are warnings from good analysers of societies to humanity about its possible futures. 


Work Cited
----------
Lawson, Maddie. “Dystopian Literature Parallels Current Society.” Northwest Horizons, 19 Dec. 2017, www.northwesthorizons.com/top-stories/2017/12/18/dystopian-literature-parallels-current-society/.
ThompsonUSA, Tonya. “The Differences (and Similarities) between Dystopian and Post-Apocalyptic Fiction.” ServiceScape, ServiceScape Incorporated, 19 Nov. 2018, www.servicescape.com/blog/the-differences-and-similarities-between-dystopian-and-post-apocalyptic-fiction.   
Stephen Groening Assistant Professor of Cinema and Media Studies. “What Orwell's '1984' Tells Us about Today's World, 70 Years after It Was Published.” The Conversation, 31 Oct. 2019, theconversation.com/what-orwells-1984-tells-us-about-todays-world-70-years-after-it-was-published-116940.  
Lanchester, John. “Orwell V Huxley: WHOSE Dystopia Are We Living in Today?” Subscribe to Read | Financial Times, Financial Times, 18 Jan. 2019, www.ft.com/content/aa8ac620-1818-11e9-b93e-f4351a53f1c3.
