After Jeff Bezos’ Flight
On the 20th of July, at the age of 57, billionaire Jeff Bezos and his 3 other crewmates officially became astronauts with a 10-minute flight in Blue Origin’s New Shepard rocket. Alongside Wally Funk, 82; Oliver Daemen, 18; and Mark Bezos, the four launched from a launchpad near El Paso, Texas and reached a massive 2300 miles per hour, which is around 3 times the speed of sound.


For many, with this flight, a new milestone has been achieved and a new era has slowly started to approach humanity: sub-orbital tourism missions. Big companies like SpaceX and Blue Origin are planning on taking civilians out into orbit in the following years. However, this whole question of sending people to orbit is still causing a lot of controversy around the globe. Although some believe that space exploration and tourism missions to space are vital for our species to one day become a multi-planetary one, some believe that the resources required for such missions are simply too much. 


According to various sources, Jeff Bezos spent around 5.5 billion dollars just to spend a couple of minutes in space. Many have raised concerns about the massive amount of money allocated for such a mission. When Bezos was asked a question about the claims of people who state that investing in Earth is more valuable and urgent than investing in space, he answered saying “they’re largely right,” and clarified that “we have to do both.” The significance of space missions are undeniable, and for humans to continue their species, it is vital for them to continue their space missions, by both sending people into orbit and exploring planets, moons and deep space. However, doing this simultaneously while also looking out for our own delicate world is what is right and the most important. As many claim, billionaires are so focused on the space industry itself that they mostly disregard the world that they are currently in. This will continue to be a hot topic around the globe and to raise some controversy in the following years and only time will show what kind of a future awaits us.


Furthermore, many have been unsettled about the environmental harms and the carbon footprints of such missions. According to many researches, most rockets burn hydrocarbon fuels and generate soot, which is highly risky for life on Earth. Also, space travels create temporary holes in the stratospheric ozone layers which means that the protection from the harmful UV radiation that the ozone provides us with dwindles with each space flight. Of course, as read from the flight details,  Blue Origin’s flight was relatively less harmful for the environment since it used liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen instead of kerosene, however it definitely is not completely environmentally friendly. Since there are barely any space flights right now, scientists have not been really raising serious concerns about the environmental impacts of these rockets to the atmospheric layers. However, we would not be wrong if we were to say that these space flights could increase in number exponentially in the following decades which would mean that the environmental effects would get way harder to deal with.


With billionaires one by one planning these space flights, the world has started watching the space industry more carefully than ever. Big companies like SpaceX and Blue Origin have announced upcoming missions and even some companies have opened auctions for future space flight seats. With more people going into space, space travel might be the norm of the future. However, many have raised concerns about the amount of money that is allocated as well as the possible environmental issues that they would produce and these topics are and will be debated by the whole world for a very long time. But the most important thing that we should do is to always have our own Earth, our own home, as our focus and never ever disregard it for the sake of space flights. As long as we keep our own home as our utmost priority, companies will and should continue to use emerging technologies to venture out to space, because space is our future, it is our hope.

--Elif Eren

Work Cited
----------
"Jeff Bezos Launches To Space Aboard New Shepard Rocket Ship". BBC News, 2021, https://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-57849364.
"Blue Origin's New Shepard Rocket Is 'Go' To Launch Jeff Bezos (And Crew) On 1St Astronaut Flight". Space.Com, 2021, 
https://www.space.com/blue-origin-new-shepard-cleared-to-launch-jeff-bezos.
"The Rise Of Space Tourism Could Affect Earth's Climate In Unforeseen Ways, Scientists Worry". Space.Com, 2021, https://www.space.com/environmental-impact-space-tourism-flights.
"What You Should Know About Jeff Bezos' Tuesday Space Launch". Fortune, 2021, https://fortune.com/2021/07/19/jeff-bezos-space-launch-blue-origin-july-20-2021-billionaires/.
2021, https://expressinformer.com/jeff-bezos-spaceflight-live-updates/. Accessed 12 Aug 2021.
